adding blog post for freetype CVE, also fixed a typo in blog for 01-17 and updated blog for 02-20 (#782)
AlmaLinux/almalinux.org: content/blog/2025-03-13-cve-2025-27363-patches.md

---
title: "Call for testing - FreeType CVE-2025-27363"
type: blog
author: 
    name: "Jonathan Wright"
    bio: "Infrastructure SIG lead & ALESCo member"
    image: /users/jonathan.jpg
date: '2025-03-13'
images:
  - /blog-images/2025/2025-03-freetype-cve.png
post:
    title: "Help us test patches for the FreeType CVE-2025-27363, and see the current status of those patches"
    image: /blog-images/2025/2025-03-freetype-cve.png
---

## The Announcement

> Yesterday [Meta announced](https://www.facebook.com/security/advisories/cve-2025-27363) a flaw in FreeType versions 2.13.0 and below that can allow remote code execution. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On Monday [Meta announced](https://www.facebook.com/security/advisories/cve-2025-27363) a flaw in FreeType versions 2.13.0 and below that can allow remote code execution.
```

## Installing the testing repo on AlmaLinux

It only takes a few steps to install and test the patched version of OpenSSH in the testing repo. 

**Install the testing repo**

```bash
dnf install -y almalinux-release-testing
``` 

**Then update the package:**

```bash
dnf update freetype
``` 

**Confirm you have the patched version of the package** 

The patched RPM versions are listed further down in this article.

```bash
rpm -qa freetype
``` 

Note: We don't recommend that you keep the testing repo enabled after you've updated the package, unless you've done this on a truly non-production environment. If this is a production environment, you can disable the repo with this command:

```bash
dnf config-manager --disable almalinux-testing
```

If you encounter problems, please let us know as soon as you can, either in [AlmaLinux chat](https://chat.almalinux.org), on [bugs.almalinux.org](https://bugs.almalinux.org), or by emailing [packager@almalinux.org](packager@almalinux.org).

## AlmaLinux OS 8 & AlmaLinux OS  9

> Both AlmaLinux 8 and AlmaLinux 9 are vulnerable to this CVE. Patches are not yet available from RedHat, so the [patch we are pulling in](https://git.almalinux.org/rpms/freetype/pulls/1) is [from FreeType](https://gitlab.freedesktop.org/freetype/freetype/-/commit/ef636696524b081f1b8819eb0c6a0b932d35757d) itself.  

Reviewer: This may change more.  Honestly don't merge this yet.

```suggestion
Both AlmaLinux 8 and AlmaLinux 9 are vulnerable to this CVE. Patches are not yet available from RedHat, so the [patch we are pulling in](https://git.almalinux.org/rpms/freetype/pulls/2) is [from FreeType](https://gitlab.freedesktop.org/freetype/freetype/-/commit/ef636696524b081f1b8819eb0c6a0b932d35757d) itself.

We'd like to thank Michel Lind of Meta for the backporting work in his [PR to CentOS Stream 9](https://gitlab.com/redhat/centos-stream/rpms/freetype/-/merge_requests/8) as well as for bringing this vulnerability to our attention.
```

#### Vulnerability Status and Patched packages

> - AlmaLinux 8 is patched in - ```free``` 
> - AlmaLinux 9 - ```free``` 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- AlmaLinux 8 is patched in ```freetype-2.9.1-9.alma.1``` and above
- AlmaLinux 9 is patched in ```freetype-2.10.4-9.el9.alma.2``` and above
```

```bash
dnf config-manager --disable almalinux-testing
```

If you encounter problems, please let us know as soon as you can, either in [AlmaLinux chat](https://chat.almalinux.org), on [bugs.almalinux.org](https://bugs.almalinux.org), or by emailing [packager@almalinux.org](packager@almalinux.org).

## AlmaLinux OS 8 & AlmaLinux OS  9

Both AlmaLinux 8 and AlmaLinux 9 are vulnerable to this CVE. [Patches are not yet available from Red Hat](https://access.redhat.com/security/cve/cve-2025-27363), so the [patch we are pulling in](https://git.almalinux.org/jonathan/freetype/src/commit/dbe419ab4f282424ccf4b01c6bf5df4b7aa45d50/SOURCES/freetype-2.10.4-cve-2025-27363.patch) was written by Marc Deslauriers of Canonical and [shared on the Openwall oss-security mailing list](https://www.openwall.com/lists/oss-security/2025/03/14/3).  It has since been vetted by the reporters of the CVE at Meta as well.

We'd also like to thank Michel Lind of Meta for the initial backporting work in his [PR to CentOS Stream 9](https://gitlab.com/redhat/centos-stream/rpms/freetype/-/merge_requests/8) as well as for bringing this vulnerability to our attention.

#### Vulnerability Status and Patched packages

> - AlmaLinux 8 is patched in ```freetype-2.9.1-9.alma.1``` and above

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- AlmaLinux 8 is patched in ```freetype-2.9.1-9.el8.alma.1``` and above
```
